---
layout: post
title: Windows 11
excerpt: Windows 11 was just announced!
---

Microsoft just[^1] announced that [Windows 11](https://www.microsoft.com/en-us/windows/windows-11) is being released later this year!

## Aesthetics

There's now round corners and a "frosted glass" look. Reminds me of an earlier operating system...but in all seriousness, I think it looks nice and I'll get so used to it that I can't go back.

My **number one** grievance, however, is that it appears Windows 11 is keeping all of the old UI for older programs like Control Panel. While most people probably don't use these things that much and couldn't care less, I want consistent design! I know there's stuff like backwards compatibility and whatnot that Microsoft always harps on about, but for *once* could they just go into the old code and fix the old UI? Otherwise we'll be stuck with it forever.

I am glad that they're updating the File Explorer and Settings UI though.

### The taskbar

We'll see how I adapt to the taskbar icons being in the center. Maybe I'll end up clicking the bottom-left corner a whole bunch even though there's nothing there, but I'll probably end up adapting to it being in the center.

I don't like how task manager is no longer accessible from the task bar, but I'll end up adapting to that too.

## Other features

A lot of the stuff they announced was simply new features.

- Widgets — I might actually end up using these to get some quick information. But if I don't like widgets, I can always just choose to not use them.
- Android apps running "natively" — I've heard this is a not-so-native thing and there's complications, so maybe not.
- Teams integration and updates — The most important part of the Teams update is that they're [no longer using Electron](https://tomtalks.blog/2021/06/microsoft-teams-2-0-will-use-half-the-memory-dropping-electron-for-edge-webview2/) and some other great things! I've hated using Teams for so long, and this will make things so much better. But I don't have much use for it now that remote stuff is (hopefully) coming to an end.

## General stuff

It looks to me as if built-in Windows features are finally going to be useful. I haven't used apps like Mail and Maps and the Windows Store much, so hopefully there are some new features in Windows 11 that will be worth using. Especially the store revamp—it looks like it might be a lot more useful now!

I also hope Windows 11 will have some more under-the-hood updates that make it run faster and in general be a better experience. Things like Search being faster, and Explorer search being better. They focused a lot on features and aesthetics, which is great, but I wish they'd talked more about under-the-hood stuff.

## More meta stuff

[This article](https://thenextweb.com/news/windows-11-had-to-happen) is great. I'm glad I finally get to experience some excitement in the Windows world. But Windows 11 does feel like it could have been yet another Windows 10 update, so I'm interested where Microsoft takes it next.



***

I'm installing Windows 11 on my secondary computer, and will make a review later!

[^1]: I'm actually late by over a week—they announced it on June 24th.