---
layout: post
title: 2022 AMC tips
excerpt: Some things you might find useful before the 2022 AMCs
---

With the 2022 AMC contest series starting tomorrow, November 10th, I thought that I'd share some last-minute tips and tricks. Many of these are gathered from specific historical problems where I wish I had known these techniques.

These tips are as much for me as they are for everyone else, so many of them are quite half-baked ideas and may or may not actually be useful.

Good luck on the AMCs, everyone!

## Algebra

1. Never forget powers of $1$ and $-1$ when solving equations with exponents
2. Base-ten logs of small primes:
    <center>

    | $n$ | $\log_{10} n$ |
    | --- | ------------- |
    | 2   | 0.3010        |
    | 3   | 0.4771        |
    | 5   | 0.6990        |

    </center>

3. Simplifying trig series using geometric series of complex numbers
4. **The cubic formula.** The real solution to $x^3 + px + q = 0$ is
$$
\sqrt[3]{-\frac{q}{2} + \sqrt{\frac{q^2}{4} + \frac{p^3}{27}}}
+
\sqrt[3]{-\frac{q}{2} - \sqrt{\frac{q^2}{4} + \frac{p^3}{27}}}.
$$
5. Infinite series can sometimes be simplified by expressing them as the *imaginary* part of some infinite geometric series.
6. **Newton sums**: Given a polynomial
   $$a_n x^n + a_{n-1} x^{n-1} + \cdots + a_1 x + a_0,$$
   if $P^k$ denotes the sum of the $k$th powers of its roots, then
   $$
   \begin{align*}
      a_n P_1 + a_{n-1} &= 0 \\
      a_n P_2 + a_{n-1} P_1 + 2a_{n-2} &= 0 \\
      a_n P_3 + a_{n-1} P_2 + a_{n-2} P_1 + 3a_{n-3} &= 0
   \end{align*}
   $$
   and so on.

### Factoring

There's a whole deal of factoring tricks that might be useful to remember:
1. Sophie-Germain identity:
    $$a^4 + 4b^4 = ((a + b)^2 + b^2)((a - b)^2 + b^2)$$
2. Things like
    $$2a^2 + 2b^2 + 2c^2 + 2ab + 2bc + 2ca$$
    are just begging to be factored like
    $$(a + b)^2 + (b + c)^2 + (c + a)^2.$$
    (Comes from the [2012 AMC 10A/12A](https://artofproblemsolving.com/wiki/index.php/2012_AMC_10A_Problems/Problem_24))

## Number theory

1. The prime factorization of $2023$ is $7 \times 17^2$ and the prime factorization of $2022$ is $2 \times 3 \times 337$.


## Geometry

1. Given the four side lengths of a quadrilateral (in order), as long as they satisfy the triangle inequality, there exists a **unique** cyclic quadrilateral with those side lengths.
2. **Parallelogram law** (Can be rederived from Stewart's). In triangle $ABC$, let $D$ be the midpoint of side $BC$. Then
    $$(AB)^2 + (AC)^2 = \frac{(BC)^2 + 4(AD)^2}{2}.$$
3. When there's a semicircle and length conditions are given, power of a point might be helpful


## Combinatorics

1. Make it clear when you're counting the complement of something so you don't answer the wrong question
